yoga teachers are always talking about
the touret effect uh the idea that we
are restricting blood flow to different
organs and joints by doing these
postures and then during savasa highly
oxygenated blood rushes in to help heal
whichever area we were restricting can
you talk about that exactly what what
Phil just said I believe to be I believe
the combination of what he just said uh
the postures that do that I believe to
be the most therapeutic part of of this
yoga
um it is crucial uh you know people
often times think blood flow is is a
constant phenomenon and the reality is
uh for all of you all of us in in this
room it it may be uh we may have a
constant steady blood flow to the organs
we need at the times that we need that
uh outside of this room that is not true
almost every disease State affects blood
flow to to our organs and our joints and
as we as we age or as we have
injuries blood flow to the joints
becomes um uh something of the past and
and so the the the postures that do just
what you named are hugely therapeutic
basically what you want to do is cut off
circulation temporarily and then have a
wash in of highspeed velocity blood
technically as oxygenated as you can get
it and and that that's that's what
that's exactly what you're doing with
this yoga the important point is that
the temperature change and and warming
of the muscles and aiding detoxification
is a tremendous benefit a and really
what what the individual postures in
this class are doing is it's all about
it's all about
high-speed oxygenated blood flow you
actually can clear up a lot of
inflammation a lot of vascular INF
inflammation that's a hot term in the
literature um so many people have it and
and that actually is a way of clearing
it out and clearing it up and and it's
identical to what we're doing in here